1. First date outfit strategy
Before we look at clothes, I want to name two things:
You shouldn't try to impress women with your style. If you're reading this, your wardrobe probably needs help, and you're 100x more likely to succeed if you aim for "good" rather than "GQ cover model."
You don’t need to impress women with your style. Thankfully most women aren’t seeking guys with GQ cover model style. In fact, preoccupation with your appearance is a turn-off for many women.
Basically, you just want to:
Look above-average so women either think your style is good, or don't consciously think about your style, and...
Minimize complexity so you don't sweat what to wear, and can focus on having fun on your date!
The best first date outfits for men
Spoiler alert, there's no one "best" first date outfit.
There are infinity combos of tops, bottoms, shoes, and accessories that can knock women’s socks (and more) off. We'll look at dozens in this article.
Still, if I had to recommend just one "best" first date outfit?
It'd be something like:
Plain, casual, button-down shirt
Nice dark jeans
Simple white sneakers
This outfit is a winner because it's elevated yet casual; it's insanely simple yet versatile; and girls love it.
If it speaks to you...
Get a plain, casual, button-down shirt. These styles from Everlane, J. Crew are all solid! You choose short or long sleeves (and whether to wear an undershirt), though the "right" answer is often weather dependent.
Get a pair of nice dark jeans. I'm a fan of Madewell and Rag & Bone. Invest in a pair you're proud of, minimize distractions, and dry clean to retain color + crispness.
Get a pair of simple white sneakers. You can't go wrong with Jack Purcell, Veja, or Common Projects. Similar story as jeans, but instead of dry cleaning, clean your shoes yourself.
4. Casual vs less-casual first date outfits
Good first dates are usually casual, so good first date outfits are usually casual, too 
Still, depending on your lifestyle, your relationship with the woman you're taking out, and the date you planned, you may want to dress up or down a bit!
Let's look at both ends of the spectrum...
‍You've already got your dark jeans and white sneakers covered, so to remake both of these outfits, you just need a couple of pieces:
Get a good henley. I like Everlane and Todd Snyder. Black, white, and grey are always safe color options.
Gt some good t-shirts. Once again, Everlane and Todd Snyder are strong here. Recently my husband has been obsessed with Vuori.
Get a bomber jacket. Zara has dirt cheap options that look good. Alternatively, this Rag & Bone will never go out of style.
These are just two of many casual options.
Aside from less-casual looks up next, most of outfits throughout this article are varying degrees of casual, too!
These fits obviously contrast with the outfits we've looked at so far, but they can work in certain cases, for example:
You usually dress like this. Not trying to be ageist, just flagging in case it helps — most guys I work with in their 20s don't usually dress like this, and many of the guys who are 40+ do.
The situation warrants it. You shouldn't deliberately plan fancy first dates, but I can imagine situations where a nice outing makes sense (e.g. you met in first class on your flight from LAX to JFK...)
Basically, don't buy a blazer for your next first date just because you read this, but absolutely get one if it feels authentic to you.
Want to nail this look?
Get a blazer. As usual, Zara is great for inexpensive options. If you can invest more, I've heard good things about Suit Supply. Blazer pro tip: stick to grey or navy unless you know what you're doing!
Get a pair of loafers. For solid classics on a budget, check out G.H. Bass. For less guesswork, check out what's available at Todd Snyder. Loafer pro tip: don't buy anything your grandpa wouldn't have worn.
Get a pair of chinos. You can't go wrong with Bonobos, and just remember that pleat is dressier.

5. Daytime vs evening first date outfits
Don't waste brain cells pondering the distinction between daytime and evening first-date outfits.
There aren't rules here, though:
Good daytime outfits may be more casual, may show more skin, and may bias toward lighter colors
Good evening outfits may be more formal, may cover up more, and may bias toward darker colors
Evening first date outfits
Again, note the contrast.
The outfit on the left is more classically "evening" given the heavy palette and leather. The outfit on the right is more versatile for either day or night.
To nail all of the outfits above...
Get a leather jacket. Schott has stylish options for relatively entry-level prices (leather jackets are expensive...) but if money is no object, go Tom Ford.
Get a pair of Chelsea boots. My husband swears by R.M. Williams. I've also heard good things about Thursday Boots, and they're half the price!
Get some good shorts. They should land above the knee. Try Bonobos or Mr P.
Get some light outerwear. I love all of the Corduroy and Denim shirt options on Mr Porter.
6. Cool weather first date outfits, for fall and winter
To streamline your first date wardrobe choices for fall and winter:
Get a plaid flannel shirt. They never go out of style. Madewell and RRL have great options, and the shirt the model on the right is wearing is Mr P.
Get a puffer jacket. This can be your outer layer with basically any outfit. Invest in something plain from a good brand like Canada Goose, Patagonia, or Moncler.
You don’t need much else. Fashion-forward pieces like trenchcoats and peacoats are great, but not required, for dating!
7. Warm weather first date outfits, for spring and summer
To streamline your spring and summer wardrobe choices:
Get a good printed shirt. A few of my favorite brands are Saturdays NYC and Kenny Flowers.
Get good polo. These Zara knits are affordable, and these Mr P options are classic if also pricier.
Get a pair of huaraches or espadrilles. Huaraches are woven sandals from Mexico. Try Nisolo's. Espadrilles are their canvas cousins from Spain. The most famous brand is Castañer.
8. Accessories to wear on a first date
PSA: You don’t need to wear any accessories on a first date.
Accessories can detract from an outfit just as easily as they can add to one, so I'd err on the side of not accessorizing. Still, let's look at examples...
SCARVES. Scarves are the only accessories I can wholeheartedly endorse. They're useful in winter, plus they can add spice to a dull outfit.
HATS. You can wear a hat if it's functional (e.g. afternoon date to the park) but please skip the hat if you're trying to hide hair loss. You're not fooling anyone!
BAGS. Unless you need a bag (e.g. you’re picnicking), avoid bringing one on your first date. Toting your workbag to dinner can signal lack of boundaries, and backpacks especially can make you look childish.
WATCHES. Absolutely wear a watch you already own and love on a first date. But you don't need to buy a watch for dating purposes if you don't already own one. I informally surveyed 102 women about men's accessories in 2021, and 55% said they don't even notice if a guy is wearing a watch. My husband literally doesn't even own one.
JEWELRY. Same story as watches.
‍
9. Outfits to avoid on a first date
I'll never say never, but please be wary of wearing:
Anything you wear deliberately for work. Wearing your startup hoodie (or your O.R. scrubs) can signal lack of boundaries.
Anything purposefully showy. Do you really want to date a woman who likes you for your $800 Gucci logo t-shirt?
Anything you wouldn’t normally wear. A first date isn’t the right time to pilot an outfit you’re unsure of.
Using Bumble prompts helps you:
Break the ice, make her laugh, and give her something to message you about
Showcase your personality, and show her that you’re compatible from the start
Have a bit of fun, and show her if you’re looking for fun, vs something more serious
Make your profile stand out from the crowd

Here's what Bumble Prompts look like when you're setting up your profile:
Smart guys will use these as inspiration, and customize them for personal use. Here are a few tips to remember that will help:
Keep it light, funny and positive
Show intention
Be specific
Always be yourself 
Niche can narrow your options, but help you find someone comnpatible!


The Best Prompts, and Funny Answer Examples
What makes a relationship great is…
Shared appreciation for tacos
Mutual agreement to leave parties early
Surveying the Sunday scaries together
Getting to delete Bumble
‍
I get way too excited about…
My first coffee in the morning
Fresh bed sheets
Stepping on that crunchy looking leaf
Dogs in gilets
‍
My personal hell is...
Answering these questions (and also eggplant)
Saying goodbye to someone then walking in the same direction as them
Bars without chicken wings. Why?!
"Unexpected item in the bagging area"
‍
I promise I won't judge you if...
You also have a Disney character tattooed on your ribs (kidding, or am I?!)
You like big butts and you cannot lie
Your step count is 35 on a Sunday
You too know all the words to the Hamilton soundtrack
‍
My most useless skill is...
Making great cups of coffee when I don't like coffee
Great on a didgeridoo
Limbo. Try me.
‍
A pro and a con of dating me…
I can design your dream house but you'll have to pay for it
I love traveling but I clap as the plane lands
‍
A fun fact I'm obsessed with...
A fear of long words is called Hippopotomonstrosesquippedaliophobia. Oh the irony.
Pirates wore eyepatches so that, when below deck after being in the sun all day, they needn't wait for their eyes to adjust to the dark. Arrrrr you impressed? 
The man who invented the stocks was the first person to be punished at the stocks, because he tried to over-charge for building the stocks.
‍
If you laugh at this, we'll get along...
Two fish are swimming in a river when one of them hits a wall. He turns to the other and he says 'dam'.
Did you hear the rumor about butter? I don't want to spread it.
I'm a 'good egg' looking for another 'good egg' so that we can get smashed together.
‍
Even MORE prompt + answer examples
If you saw the targeted ads I get, you'd think I'm... A craft beer fanatic, or borderline alcoholic
When no one's watching, I... Practice kissing using my front facing camera
After work you can find me... Finding cute dogs to pose with me for dating app photos
If I could have a superpower it'd be... The ability to dodge a hangover
As a child I was really into... Pokemon. I can still name all 250 of them. Test me.
If I could eat only one meal for the rest of my life it would be... Pasta, all day every day
I'm still not over... 5'9", thanks mom 
Something I learned way later than I should have... Ariana Grande is not a font
I'm hoping you... Are a real human, or short of that, at least an above-average chatbot
